so uh when you have like the events as
industry was like down right yeah I mean
like no one could deliver anything and
that was going on for like the entire
year you have to postpone even by like
18 months after yeah we lost 10 million
dollars right so how as a leader what
helped you to recover uh from a disaster
like that I'm just curious to know like
what was your mindset and what steps did
you take well it's funny if you really
want to talk about it um you know did
you hear the HubSpot one we're here for
this
well so Brian Hall again the co-founders
here I mean hubspot's worth almost 20
billion Brian right after kovid drove
had a horrible snowmobile accident broke
everybody in his body almost lost him
and um
and it's crazy and you can watch the
session later it's great I mean he he
barely recovered um he looked he's great
now but it was it was a long roll back
from falling off a big cliff on the
snowmobile in the dark um and had to be
airlifted out and I think he broke 40
bones or something terrible
um and I asked them a question after
that like it's a black but from a
corporate perspective it's a Black Swan
event right it sounds crazy and my
experience in my career every five to
seven years I've had a Black Swan event
and I asked them if there were others at
HubSpot and interesting they didn't have
another one right but I can think back
every four or five years I can think of
one and I if I wasn't tired I actually
wrote a tweet and I listed all of the
Black Swan events I've had in my career
and they happened somewhat they're
unpredictable but regularly on the four
to six year Cadence and so when covet
hit and the night came that Santa Clara
was shutting everything down and we had
to cancel it two days before the team
was
Beyond upset right I mean I mean how as
a leader right I mean just action and um
I was driving and pushing and pushing
and we went we had to shrink from three
days or two days as speakers cancel and
we had to do all these things and we
were down to like an afternoon event by
the end we had we had a core group of
folks that still wanted to do it and we
still would have done it right and then
the night before I realized we had to
call we had to call we had to call foul
like it was there was just no more way
when this tweet went out that Santa
Clara County was prohibiting any
Gathering even though there was no covid
really in the U.S yet
um then I realized and then that minute
I'd had Black Swan events before right
and I want to give you another story at
the end and I I went to you know Amelia
who you met who she was tougher ahead of
time I mean the team was devastated and
I just okay we're we're done let's we
sat down and for five hours until three
in the morning we just planned out our
best responses and the team's better
than me and they're great but I had been
through the Black Swan event so
immediately I went into Black Swan mode
right I just okay it happened I was I'm
not expecting it to happen but boom I
know what you do and you gotta flip the
plan and you gotta immediately be a
leader and change and I think if you ask
like puya who's our number one sales rep
he's closed 28 million he was he's here
he's so great I don't know if he's here
right now but he was just devastated but
he'd worked so hard right and he's like
I thought it was a crappy leader but
he's like you were such a great leader
through that because you were just I
don't know how you were so calm but
that's what happens when you've been
through a couple a couple Black Swan
events right
um but related to that there's an email
if I did I put it so
I look for them now and as a leader as
crazy sounds I think you have to look
for Black Swan events I think you have
to look for them because you'll start to
see them and like in January of 2020 the
CDC put out an email that said covid
might be an issue for travel
and I I wish I had I put on screen I
immediately forward it to Amelia and I
said my literally emails is this is
probably our Black Swan event this year
because I knew the signs I'd felt it
before and every year for saster there's
some except for this year this is our
best year in terms of execution but
every other year for eight years there
was a little Black Swan event for us
right something blew up
um you know one year the person that ran
it forgot to
reserve the venue that was pretty bad
oh my God okay
um even this year one of the big vendors
for us quit three weeks ago they quit
three weeks ago a key vendor that we've
relied on for years they just quit they
didn't want to do the work okay so those
things used to destroy us we built
redundancy we built resiliency so the
minute that vendor quit after four years
Ashley from Montgomery entertainment
officer she's one of the best that
producer she just stepped up and Emilia
stepped up when he fixed it right it
wasn't easy but kudos to her and she's
not hearing this hopefully she sees our
my appreciation in the video
um but so now I plan I plan for them
right and so I'm not saying you
literally have to plan for a snowmobile
accident or a pandemic but you want to
think what what could really what what
kind of things could screw this company
up what if the what if the round doesn't
happen what if um what if my co-founder
quits like like for example like someone
on your executive team is going to quit
that you don't expect and when I do
I don't ask these questions of the CEOs
anymore but I used to in the early days
you watch the videos I'd always ask like
was there a great VP that quit on you
and every everyone has the story Aaron
levia box had this story one of the
interviews I did with him is how their
first VP events quit and he thought they
would never recover right they lost
their VP events you thought the world
had ended and it probably had but and
now I always plan for a VP to leave and
and like you know the ones that won't
leave but even then something could
happen right something in their life and
so that's one that every founder should
plan for which is that one of your most
trusted teammates
for some reason leaves you lose them
like it could be a snowmobile accident
for HubSpot it could be a personal issue
it could be a home issue it could be you
don't realize how stressed they are and
they just quit to go on a walkabout but
that's one if you plan for nothing else
plan on someone a key right-hand person
that you would never think leaving leave
and so have a calm plan what would you
do if they quit how would you handle it
think about it on a walk when you're
calm so that when something like that
hits like losing 10 million like I knew
I didn't know exactly what to do but I
knew Emilia too we called the lawyers we
called the people we called the vendors
like the folks that do this AV stuff
this is a million and a half bucks these
lights so the trucks that already
started rolling from Texas we
immediately called them and saved about
seven hundred thousand dollars because
the trucks turned around
um I mean that's a specific example onto
a SAS company but think about people
Black Swan events team Black Swan events
don't spend all your time on them but if
you're gonna go long like you're gonna
have a snowmobile accident or a global
pandemic or friggin Twin Towers being
hit by an airplane I mean I've been
doing startups long enough to remember
the day when the Twin Towers went down
right and uh almost to to morbid to talk
about in the afternoon I can keep
thinking of the 28 2000 in 2000 I mean
most of you weren't Founders in 2008
2009 that that it's was so bad in 2008
or nine I can't remember what
I'm sitting at an early SAS like
corporate banking event at like Pebble
Beach on a beautiful day having wine
with like investment bankers and VCS and
I get a call on my phone from from our
bank Citibank Greg my banker for years
through Tuesday Greg how you doing I'm
at this event but I love you he's like
you got to pull your money out of
Citibank I'm like what do you mean
citibank's the largest bank in the world
he's like I think tomorrow Citibank is
going to fail
and Citibank it turned out almost did
fail like Lehman failed sleeping almost
failed and I'm like Greg where do I put
my money like do I put it in Silicon
Valley Bank what if they fail and he
didn't know he's like at least take half
your money out because the everyone in
the office is talking about we're gonna
do a press release tomorrow that
Citibank is going to fail now there was
a bailout that night and Citibank did
not fail in the morning but I'm just
rambling through like I never as a
Founder thought my bank my bank guy
would call me and tell me to pull my
money out I didn't know where to I
didn't know and one the banks were
closed at 3 P.M where am I going to wire
out half of my 8 million Adventure
Capital like I don't know but um but so
I could I could think of more of those
um my co-founder at Echo sign 10 months
in like my muse walked out the door and
never came back
never came back I never fully recovered
from that right
um and so anyhow that rambly but think
about those when you're if you're if
you're going short don't worry about
this stuff don't plan around if you're
going short right don't worry but if you
think in terms of a decade like Renee
from build.com calmly think about what
you're going to do when these things
happen and then when they when it
happens once every five years you'll
like spring spring into action like I
did right